# Background and justification of selected algorithm  

## Introduction  

Ocean vector winds (OVW) are critically important for societal applications. Timely knowledge of OVW is needed for applications in commercial shipping {cite:p}`kite2011value`, regional maritime transportation networks {cite:p}`Coll2013`, military operations {cite:p}`Clinton2011`, and natural resource exploration {cite:p}`Krauss2012`. For marine navigation, rapidly intensifying storms are especially hazardous {cite:p}`Shieh2013`. Rapid intensification is controlled by processes within 100 km of the circulation center, particularly within the eyewall {cite:p}`Sitkowski2009`; {cite:p}`Kossin2012`. High resolution winds are important to capture structure needed for proper modeling of cloud microphysics, especially for small-diameter storms with large pressure gradients {cite:p}`Jin2014`. Satellite measured OVW are valuable because they capture small scale features not resolved by reanalysis {cite:p}`Chelton2004`; {cite:p}`Risien2008`, which can provide early detection of developing tropical cyclones ({cite:p}`Katsaros2001`; {cite:p}`Sharp2002`; {cite:p}`Gierach2007`). 

OVW are also critically important for scientific applications. They are relevant to seasonal and longer term forecasts through mechanisms such as the El Nino Southern Oscillation {cite:p}`Lagerloef2003`; {cite:p}`Han2008`, through modulation of ocean surface currents ({cite:p}`Helber2007`; {cite:p}`Johnson2007`; {cite:p}`Dohan2010`), and redistribution of sea ice ({cite:p}`Saenko2002`; {cite:p}`Dery2004`; {cite:p}`Zhang2010`; {cite:p}`Wu2013`; {cite:p}`Zhang2014`). OVW are also relevant to prediction on scales of a decade and longer ({cite:p}`Lee2008`,{cite:p}`Song2009`) because they control the mixing of heat and momentum into the upper ocean {cite:p}`Song2009`, and the vertical mixing which brings that heat and momentum from the surface mixed layer into the deep ocean ({cite:p}`pickart2003deep`; {cite:p}`Moore205`). In all these applications, high winds make a particularly significant contribution ({cite:p}`Zeng1998`; {cite:p}`Yuan2004`; {cite:p}`Sampe2007`). 

Currently, there are two primary technologies for measuring OVW from space – which is the only practical platform for global OVW measurement. The first are scatterometers, which are an active measurement system. Scatterometers transmit a radar pulse that is reflected scattered from the ocean surface, and the ratio of returning power to transmitted power is related to the capillary wave spectrum through Bragg scattering. The total return is related to wind speed, and the differential response as a function of viewing azimuth angle is related to wind direction. The second are radiometers, which are a passive measurement system. Radiometers observe the natural emission from Earth's atmosphere, oceans, land, and ice. The emissivity of the ocean surface is related to wind speed and direction through long gravity waves, capillary wave roughness, and from sea foam at higher wind speeds and white capping. The difference between horizontal and vertical polarization is related to wind speed, and measurement of the complete Stokes vector provides wind direction. Additional accuracy can be obtained by taking measurements at more than one look direction, as will be possible with CIMR aft and fore views. In addition to the C- to Ka-band which are most sensitive to wind speed change in non-rainy conditions , CIMR also provides L-band measurements that have been recently used to determine extreme wind speeds over the ocean ({cite:p}`Reul2017`;{cite:p}`Meissner2017`). Note that OVW data from scatterometers and radiometers are now routinely assimilated by operational weather prediction centers including ECMWF, NCEP, UKMO, Meteo-France, and Navy FNMOC, and make significant impacts on weather forecasting, see the recent review in {cite:p}`Bourassa2019`.

Considering the Arctic, Polar Lows (PL) are intense mesoscale cyclones that are associated with cold air outbreaks and form pole ward of the main baroclinic zone. Sometimes referred to as Arctic hurricanes, polar lows are short-lived (the mean lifetime is ~15 h) and small-scale cyclones (diameters ranging from 200 to 600 km), unlike their tropical counterparts ({cite:p}`Smirnova2015`). What they do have in common is strong surface winds: at least gale force is required for a polar low ({cite:p}`simmonds_2003`). Early detection and evaluation of PL parameters are extremely important to ensure the safety of navigation, fishing and oil industry, and expanding construction on the Arctic shelf. This a timeliness of NRT1H is required. These extreme storms, characterized by strong and rapidly changing winds, are known to enhance vertical mixing processes. This can affect the cold halocline layer, possibly leading to a positive feedback to impact sea-ice formation. Because of the sparse network of weather stations and irregular meteorological observations at the sea, fast movement and short life cycle of PLs, the phenomena are not always identified in the pressure fields on the surface weather maps. That is why satellite data remain the basic source of information on PLs. Polar lows can be identified in integrated Water Vapor Content (WVC) fields {cite:p}`Smirnova2015`, but in some regions (Chukchi Sea, Laptev Sea and the East Siberian), they are associated with extremely low WVC values which make their detection from high-frequency radiometers (e.g., SSM/I) difficult ({cite:p}`Zabolotskikh2016`). Efficient masking of the areas over the oceans, where geophysical parameter retrievals are objectively impossible due to non-transparent atmosphere, is still an important issue for satellite radiometer measurements working at frequency higher or equal than C-band. As demonstrated for Tropical cyclones ({cite:p}`Reul2012`;{cite:p}`Reul2016`; {cite:p}`Fore2016`;{cite:p}`Reul2017`;{cite:p}`Meissner2017`) CIMR L-band radiometer data can provide a direct way to probe surface wind speed in extreme weather events, being almost transparent to the atmosphere. 
 
## Historical Heritage  

Originally, microwave radiometers were developed for measuring atmospheric parameters (water vapor, liquid water, temperature, ozone content, ...) in the atmosphere of the Earth or of other planets. However, it was realized since the mid 1960's that in frequency bands not attenuated by the atmosphere, their measurements are also sensitive to the roughness of the ocean surface. It was also realized that a combination of different electromagnetic frequencies (typically from 5 to 90 GHz) was useful to separate atmospheric effects from surface effects. 
 
In the years preceding the launch of Nimbus-5 in 1972, there were several developments concerning the effect of wind at the ocean's surface. {cite:p}`stogryn1967` developed a theory to account for the wind-induced roughness and first proposed the existence of a measurable azimuthal dependence of sea-surface brightness temperature due to ocean winds. Using sea-surface microwave emissivity calculations based on the Kirchhoff's law and Fresnel reflection formulas (Kirchhoff-Fresnel mechanism of thermal emission), Stogryn conjectured that due to differences in wave slopes in the along- and cross-wind directions, sea-surface microwave emission should depend upon the angle between the wind and the observing direction. {cite:p}`hollinger1971passive` made some radiometric measurements from a fixed tower to test the theory. He removed the most obvious foam effects from the data and found that the roughness effect was somewhat less than the Stogryn theory would predict by a frequency dependent factor.

Using airborne data, {cite:p}`Nordberg1971` characterized the combined foam and roughness effect at 19.35 GHz. At their measurement angle the observed effect was dominated by foam. Stogryn's geometric optics theory was extended to included diffraction effects, multiple scattering, and two-scale partitioning by {cite:p}`Wu1972` and {cite:p}`Wentz1975`, and {cite:p}`webster1976spectral`. {cite:p}`Wilheit1979a` used the 37-GHz dual polarized data from the Electrically Scanned Microwave Radiomter (ESMR) to explore the wind-induced roughness emission of the ocean surface. This was later combined with other data to generate a semi-empirical model for the ocean surface emissivity {cite:p}`Wilheit1979b` in preparation for the 1978 launch of the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) on the Nimbus-7 and SeaSat satellites. A theory for the retrieval of all 4 ocean parameters was published by {cite:p}`Wilheit1980`. The first wind speed maps provided at the global scale were obtained from observations at 10.7 GHz of the Scanning Multi-Channel Microwave Radiometer on the Seasat satellite launched in 1978 ({cite:p}`Njoku1983GlobalMO`). Since then, this approach has been extended (other frequencies or combination of frequencies, usually in C- and X-bands) and operationally used from various series of satellites. A well-known example is the series of the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) which carries the scanning radiometer SSM/I (Special Sensor Microwave/Imager, see {cite:p}`hollinger1990ssm`), or its successor (Special Sensor Microwave Imager / Sounder - SSMIS). In parallel, first experimental evidence of the brightness temperature dependence on wind direction was obtained during aircraft experiments carried out by Space Research Institute (IKI) in late 1970s ({cite:p}`bespalova1979issledovanie`,{cite:p}`bespalova1981sea`). Amplitude of azimuth-dependent signal amounted to several degrees that exceeded predictions of Kirchhoff-Fresnel mechanism by an order of magnitude. To explain this discrepancy, Etkin and Kravtsov suggested a mechanism of resonant thermal emission from gravity-capillary waves comparable in scale to the electrical wavelength. This effect (titled by the authors as «critical phenomena») was predicted theoretically in {cite:p}`kravtsov1979critical` and further was investigated in experiments ({cite:p}`etkin1978discovering`; {cite:p}`Trokhimovski2003`). The resulting evolution of knowledge of ocean surface microwave emission eventually led to the idea of polarimetric radiometry and its future application for surface wind vector remote measurements ({cite:p}`bespalova1982surface`; {cite:p}`dzura1992radiometrs`;{cite:p}`yueh1994`;{cite:p}`yueh1997`;{cite:p}`Yueh1999`; {cite:p}`Piepmeier2001`).

First, the launch of the SeaSat and Nimbus-7 SMMR's spurred many investigation on SMMR retrieval algorithms and model functions ({cite:p}`Wentz1983`; {cite:p}`Njoku1983GlobalMO`; {cite:p}`Alishouse1983`; {cite:p}`gloersen1984summary`), and the state-of-the-art in oceanic microwave radiometry quickly advanced. It became clear that the water vapor retrievals were highly accurate. A major improvement in the wind retrieval was made when {cite:p}`Wentz1982` combined the SeaSat SMMR TB's and the SeaSat scatterometer (SASS) wind retrievals to develop an accurate, semi-empirical relationship for the wind-induced emissivity. The next major milestones were the launch of the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM/I) in 1987 (SSM/I; {cite:p}`hollinger1990ssm`; {cite:p}`Wentz1997`) and the Special Sensor Microwave Imager Sounder (SSMIS), the Tropical Rainfall Mission Microwave Imager (TMI; {cite:p}`wentz201517`), the Global Precipitation Mission (GMI;{cite:p}`draper2015global`; {cite:p}`wentz2016orbit`), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometers (AMSR-E and AMSR2; {cite:p}`imaoka2010instrument`), and the Micro-Wave Radiation Imager (MWRI) on the Feng-Yun FY-3 platforms {cite:p}`yang2012overview`. All of these instruments are conically scanning. For measuring scalar ocean surface wind speeds, they utilize the microwave frequency range between 6 GHz (C-band) and 37 GHz (Ka-band) at two polarizations (vertical V and horizontal H). The spatial resolution of the wind speeds obtained from these instruments is about 20–35 km. The multi-frequency and dual polarization channel configuration of these passive sensors makes it possible to remove the effects of atmospheric attenuation in non-precipitating scenes accurately enough to measure wind speeds at the ocean surface.

The accuracy of the scalar ocean wind speeds from microwave radiometers has been assessed through comparisons with buoys ({cite:p}`mears2001comparison`; {cite:p}`wentz201517`; {cite:p}`wentz2017evaluating`) and numerical weather prediction models (NWP, {cite:p}`meissner200110`). In rain-free scenes, the accuracy matches that of an active instrument (<1 m/s; {cite:p}`wentz201517`; {cite:p}`wentz2017evaluating`). In precipitating scenes, the ability of these passive microwave sensors to measure ocean wind speeds degrades quickly with significant errors starting to appear in light rain (surface rain rates > 1 mm/h, {cite:p}`meissner2009wind`). This is mainly due to: (1) the attenuation of the surface signal by rain drops, and (2) the fact that the attenuation is difficult to simulate using radiative transfer models, in particular at the higher frequencies when scattering by rain drops occurs. However, because of their sensitivity to rain, the passive sensors are able to deliver an accurate measurement of the surface rain ratrate ( {cite:p}`wentz1998ssm`; {cite:p}`hilburn2008intercalibrated`). This provides valuable information for flagging wind speed retrievals in rain. Since 1996, there have been 3–6 radiometers operating in polar and/or equatorial orbits, resulting in good spatial and temporal sampling and covering 95 $\%$ of Earth's ocean surface in a given day. This temporal and spatial coverage makes it possible to integrate scalar wind speeds from satellite microwave radiometers into a long-term climate data record ({cite:p}`wentz2017evaluating`). Scalar surface wind data sets from these sensors are produced and distributed by several institutions ([REMSS](https://www.remss.com), [JAXA](https://gportal.jaxa.jp/gpr), [NSMC](http://satellite.nsmc.org.cn/PortalSite/Default.aspx), [EUMETSAT](https://www.eumetsat.int/osi-saf)).

Vector winds are useful for a wider range of applications than scalar winds. Passive polarimetric observations provide an alternative with a different set of strengths and weaknesses, while synthetic aperture radar (SAR) is more capable when used very close to land and where finer resolution is required. Some polarimetric radiometers, include the $\pm45^\circ$ polarized and left/right circular polarized channels in addition to the vertical (V) and horizontal (H) polarizations. The WindSat sensor was a conically scanning polarimetric radiometer operated by the US Navy and flown on the Coriolis platform {cite:p}`gaiser2004windsat`. It is fully polarimetric (measuring all 4 Stokes parameters) at 10.7 (X-band), 18.7 (Ku-band) and 37.0 (Ka-band) GHz and dual polarized (V and H) at 6.8 (C-band) and 23.8 GHz (K-band). The instrument has been operating from 2003 to 2020, with just a few brief interruptions, and has been providing the oceanographic communities with high-quality ocean vector wind data ({cite:p}`bettenhausen2006nonlinear`; {cite:p}`Meissner2006`).Thus, these sensors contain complete information about the state of polarization (4 Stokes parameters) of the electromagnetic radiation that is emitted from the ocean surface. The signal in the 4 Stokes parameters of the passive microwave emission from a rough ocean surface contains a small part that depends on wind direction relative to look direction {cite:p}`Yueh1999`. This allows the determination of the ocean vector winds, i.e., both scalar wind speed and wind direction. Wind speed accuracies are similar for passive polarimetric radiometers and for scatterometers. However, the wind directions from passive systems become less accurate as wind speeds fall below 8 m/s ({cite:p}`ricciardulli2012towards`). At wind speeds below 6 m/s, the passive wind direction signal is small in all polarizations and because of that the wind direction measurements are noisy at these wind speeds. The accuracy of the WindSat wind direction increases with increasing wind speed, because the wind direction signal increases. At 6 m/s, the uncertainty of with WindSat wind direction is 20° {cite:p}`hilburn2015ocean`, and it becomes usable for most oceanographic and meteorological applications. Above 8 m/s, the uncertainty of the WindSat wind direction measurements (10°-15°) is similar to that of scatterometers ({cite:p}`ricciardulli2012towards`; {cite:p}`hilburn2015ocean`). At high winds (above 10 m/s) the passive wind direction signal is strong in all 4 Stokes parameters. Because the wind direction dependence differs for the 4 Stokes parameters it is possible to resolve the vector wind ambiguities without the use of an ancillary numerical weather prediction field. WindSat takes observations in both the forward (fore) and backward (aft) look. Using both look directions in the WindSat vector wind retrieval helps to improve its performance ({cite:p}`hilburn2015ocean`). A similar approach can be followed with CIMR fore and aft views. Like other passive microwave sensors, WindSat is strongly affected by rain; its ability to measure wind speed in the presence of rain is significantly diminished. However, this effect has been converted into a useful tool for estimating rain rates (and other atmospheric products) on a global scale. WindSat ocean vector winds (and other products) are produced by the Naval Research Laboratory and Remote Sensing Systems.

More recently, the Compact Ocean Wind Vector Radiometer (COWVR) developed by the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) was mounted at the International Space Station ({cite:p}`brown2017cowvr`). Like WindSat, it scans conically and takes observations over the full scan both in the fore and aft look direction. It has fully polarimetric channels (18.7, 23.8, and 33.9 GHz) and lower frequency channels can be easily added. 
 
In spite of some limitations, particularly in regions affected by rain, such observations of wind speed from radiometer measurements are now systematically used in the operational meteorological centres forecasting systems. Since the 2000, new types of microwave radiometers at lower frequencies (L-Band) have been specifically designed to measure the sea-surface salinity and the soil moisture over the continents, such as those on the SMOS and SMAP satellites ({cite:p}`Kerr2010`, {cite:p}`entekhabi2010soil`). But it was shown that the brightness temperature in L-Band allows also to estimate the surface wind speed with a good accuracy, and indeed with a much better performance in rain or high wind conditions than that for higher frequency radiometers. The application of L-band measurements to measure extreme wind speed over the ocean has been pioneered by {cite:p}`Reul2012` ({cite:p}`Reul2016`;{cite:p}`Reul2017`). Estimates of storm intensity and sizes are being produced in near-real time from [SMOS](https://www.smosstorm.org) and [SMAP](https://www.remss.com) for operational applications at the US Navy and the Joint Typhoon Warning Center have started to ingest this information into their Automated Tropical Cyclone Forecasting Systems ({cite:p}`Sampson2000`; {cite:p}`Sampson2018`{cite:p}`Bender2017`, {cite:p}`Knaff2018`,{cite:p}`KNAFF2021125`). As demonstrated for Tropical cyclones ({cite:p}`Reul2012`;{cite:p}`Reul2016`;{cite:p}`Reul2017`; {cite:p}`Fore2016`;{cite:p}`Meissner2017`) L-band radiometer data can provide a direct way to probe surface wind speed in extreme weather events, being almost transparent to the atmosphere. In addition, estimation of the total atmospheric absorption can be also done from the ~10 GHz channel with high accuracy due to the weak influence of liquid water and especially water vapour ({cite:p}`Zabolotskikh2013`). This helps to refine a new filter to considerably reduce masking ocean areas in e.g., AMSR2 radiometer data for severe weather systems such as PL, characterized by high wind speeds and moderate atmospheric absorption. 
 
CIMR's performance to measure ocean vector winds is expected to be similar to, and even better, than WindSat (L-band chanel shall improve in rainy conditions), and it will demonstrate new technology for polarimetric radiometers including its multi-frequency capability and improved spatial resolution for the C- to Ka-bands. Note that the Weather System Follow-on Microwave (WSF-M) mission is currently being developed by Ball Aerospace for the U.S. Department of Defense as a continuation for the SSMIS and WindSat sensors. It will have a microwave imager with a configuration and polarimetric capabilities similar to WindSat, and is expected to be able to measure ocean surface wind vectors with an accuracy comparable to WindSat. The first Weather System Follow-on Microwave satellite is projected to launch in 2024, the second one in 2028, around the expected CIMR launch date. Combining Ka- to L-band channels of CIMR, a methodology can be proposed to jointly retrieve sea surface wind speed and rain rate in rainy conditions ({cite:p}`rs13091641`). The combined usage of both CIMR passive and MetOp-SG(B) SCA active microwave sea surface wind estimates will also demonstrate the potential of the highest spatial and temporal resolution in the investigation of Tropical Cyclone, Extra-Tropical Cyclones, and Polar Lows intensity. 

## Physical Principles 

The microwave emission from the ocean surface is used to estimate the ocean surface wind, based on the fact that the wind locally generates surface waves and whitecaps, which contribute to the modification of the surface emissivity from the perfectly flat sea surface value. The sea surface emissivity contrast ∆e induced by the rough and foamy sea surface can be expressed as the sum of two terms {cite:p}`Stogryn1972`:

$$
\Delta e_{p}=(1-F(U_{10}))\cdot \Delta e_{rough,p}(U_{10},\theta_s,\phi_s,f)+F(U_{10})\cdot \Delta e_{foam,p}(U_{10},\theta_s,\phi_s,f)
$$ (eqbaseline1)

where $f$, $p$, and $\theta_s$ are the receiving electromagnetic frequency, polarization, and incidence angle of the measuring radiometer, respectively, $\phi_s$ is the azimuth angle referenced to the wind direction, $F(U_{10})$ is the fraction of sea surface area covered by whitecaps at 10 m height wind speed $U_{10}$, $e_{foam,p}$ is the emissivity of typical sea-foam layers. Sea surface microwave emission for a given frequency and viewing geometry depends upon the sea water dielectric constant as well as sea surface roughness and sea foam. From detailed analyses presented in {cite:p}`john:zhang99`, the sea roughness contribution to the surface emissivity $\Delta \bar{e_{ss}}$ can be treated as the product of an electromagnetic weighting function and the sea surface roughness spectrum integrated over all surface wavelengths. The weighting function shows resonance peaks in the neighborhood of surface wavelengths with scales comparable to the electromagnetic wavelength: according to ({cite:p}`yueh1997`, 1997; {cite:p}`Johnson2006`), the emissivity perturbation $\Delta \overline{e}_{rough}$ in the polarization coordinate system with local incidence angle $\theta_s$ and local azimuthal angle $\phi_s$ can be determined as:

$$
\Delta \overline{e}_{rough}(U_{10})=
\left[\begin{matrix}
\Delta \overline{e}_{rough,h} \\ 
\Delta \overline{e}_{rough,v} \\
\Delta \overline{e}_{rough,U} \\
\Delta \overline{e}_{rough,V} \\
\end{matrix}\right]=\displaystyle\int_{0}^{\infty}\int_o^{2\pi}{W(U_{10},k_{\rho},\phi+\phi_s)} 
\left[
\begin{matrix}
g_h(f,\theta_s,\phi_s,\epsilon_{sw},k_{\rho},\phi)\\
g_v(f,\theta_s,\phi_s,\epsilon_{sw},k_{\rho},\phi)\\
g_U(f,\theta_s,\phi_s,\epsilon_{sw},k_{\rho},\phi)\\
g_V(f,\theta_s,\phi_s,\epsilon_{sw},k_{\rho},\phi)\\
\end{matrix}
\right]
k_{\rho}dk_{\rho}d\phi
$$ (eqbaseline2)

Where $W(U_{10},k_{\rho},\phi)$ is the sea surface height wavenumber spectrum at wavenumber vector ($k_{\rho},\phi$) and surface wind speed $U_{10}$. The functions $g_i$ (i = v, h, U, and V ) are the second-order weighting functions from the small perturbation method ({cite:p}`yueh1994`). {cite:p}`john:zhang99` found that brightness temperature azimuthal harmonics for each polarimetric quantity can be written as an integral of these weighting function over the corresponding surface curvature spectrum azimuthal harmonic. Studies of the harmonic weighting functions reveal them to have a simple behavior for ocean length scales much larger than or much shorter than the electromagnetic wavelength, and approximations for these limits were derived. For ocean ocean length scales comparable to the electromagnetic wavelength, the functions $g_i$ show strong local peaks representing the mechanism of resonant thermal emission from gravity-capillary waves, the so-called «critical phenomena» ({cite:p}`kravtsov1979critical`). They depend on the electromagnetic frequency $f$; sea water dielectric constant $\epsilon_{sw}$ and the radiometer look direction. Because the ocean surface becomes rougher and foamy with increasing wind speed, a potential technique became available for the global monitoring of surface winds from earth orbiting radiometers. 

The signal of the low microwave frequency (L- to Ka-bands) radiometers shows no sign of saturation or sensitivity loss even in extreme winds. The reason is that the low microwave frequency emission from the wind roughened ocean surfaces keeps increasing approximately linearly with wind speed ({cite:p}`Nordberg1971`; {cite:p}`Monahan1986`; {cite:p}`Anguelova2006` ; {cite:p}`Reul2003`; {cite:p}`Hwang2019a`; {cite:p}`Hwang2019b`), and does not saturate, even at wind speeds above hurricane force, i.e., $U_{10}$=64 kt/32 ms$^{-1}$ ({cite:p}`Reul2012`; {cite:p}`yueh2014aquarius`; {cite:p}`meissner2014emission`; {cite:p}`Reul2016`; {cite:p}`Fore2016`; {cite:p}`Meissner2017`). 

The rough sea surface emission $\Delta e_{rough,p}$ can also be expressed as a function of the 10 m height ocean surface wind speed $U_{10}$ and the relative azimuthal direction $\phi_s$ following:

$$
\Delta \overline{e}_{p,rough}(U_{10})=\Delta e_{p,f}^{(0)}(U_{10}) +\Delta e_{p,f}^{(1)}(U_{10}) \cos \phi_s+ \Delta e_{p,f}^{(2)}(U_{10}) \cos 2\phi_s
$$ (eqbaseline3)

The wind direction signal of the sea surface brightness temperature comes from the 1st harmonic term and the 2nd harmonic term $\Delta e_{p,f}^{(i=1,2)}$ which are induced by sea surface anisotropic features (sea surface slope, root mean square height of the small gravity-capillary waves). Aircraft, tower-based, laboratory and satellite measurements have demonstrated that the wind direction signal is in all Stokes parameters for sea surface emission ({cite:p}`bespalova1981sea`;{cite:p}`Gasiewski1994`;{cite:p}`Trokhimovski2003`; {cite:p}`yueh1994`). However, the sensitivity of vertically and horizontally polarized brightness temperatures to cloud liquid water and atmospheric water vapor at X and C-band result in the inability to measure the wind direction with a sufficient accuracy from space as the signal is relatively small with respect the amplitudes of errors made in the atmospheric corrections, particularly in rainy conditions. The 3rd (S3) and 4th (S4) Stokes parameters are less sensitive to cloud liquid water and atmospheric water vapor at these frequencies, and are therefore more suitable for wind direction retrieval ({cite:p}`Irisov1991`; {cite:p}`yueh1994`; {cite:p}`Laursen2001`; {cite:p}`Piepmeier2001`; {cite:p}`Lahtinen2003`; {cite:p}`yueh2006`). This principle is used for the wind direction retrieval from WindSat and SMAP sensors {cite:p}`meissner2009wind`.

In rain-free conditions, radiometers operated at frequencies in the bands from C- to Ku provide accurate estimates of the surface wind speed (RMS error with buoys < 1m/s). However, it is difficult to measure surface wind speeds in precipitation with radiometers that operate at frequencies above 10 GHz ({cite:p}`meissner2009wind`). The atmospheric attenuation by rain droplets increases with increasing frequency (Wentz, 2005) and thus results in a smaller wind signal at the top of the atmosphere. Moreover, it is difficult to model the rain attenuation accurately. This results in large errors of the retrieved wind speeds in rain if using algorithms that have been developed in rain-free conditions. It has been shown that this problem can be mitigated to a good extent if the sensor has a combination of multiple low-frequency channels as demonstrated for the airborne Step Frequency Microwave Radiometer (SFMR, 4–8 GHz), for which multi-frequency C-band channel combination is needed to correct for the rain effects and in turn to retrieve the surface wind speed ({cite:p}`Uhlhorn2007`). For satellite radiometers (e.g., AMSRE, WindSat and AMSR2), it is possible to find combinations between the C-band and X-band channels that minimize the rain impact and allow the retrievals of wind speeds in rain ({cite:p}`meissner2009wind`;{cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity`, {cite:p}`Zabolotskikh2013`). Based on this principle, all-weather algorithms have been developed for AMSRE, WindSat and AMSR2 (see {cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity`; {cite:p}`Shibata2003`). These all-weather wind algorithms need to be trained with match-ups between the measured radiometer brightness temperature TB and a reliable true surface wind speed : as described below, surface winds estimated recently from L-band radiometers can be used for that purpose ({cite:p}`meissner2021SeaIce`). Currently, the major limiting factor of the C- to Ka-band radiometers to measure winds are therefore the rain impact and their rather low spatial resolution (~ 40-60 km). In many cases, this does not allow to resolve the wind structure close to coasts, around the eye of tropical cyclone, or in particular for small compact weather systems (e.g. Polar lows).

The recent availability of spaceborne L-band radiometers operating at 1.4 GHz such as SMOS and SMAP offers new opportunities to measure surface wind, particularly in stormy and rainy conditions. L-band radiometers have a distinct advantage over most other passive microwave instruments: due to the use of a long wavelength (21 cm), they are mostly unaffected by rain or frozen precipitation ({cite:p}`Wentz2005`; {cite:p}`Reul2012`). For wind speeds below 30 kt/15 ms-1,, the performance of L-band radiometers to measure scalar wind speeds is typically ~2-3 m/s, not as good as that of higher frequency radiometers (i.e. GMI, AMSR2, WindSat) or scatterometers (QuikSCAT, ASCAT, RapidScat, ScatSat) due to larger radiometer noise and lower sensitivity. It should be noted that the wind speed retrieval of L-band radiometer relies on ocean surface salinity as external ancillary input. In some locations, this ancillary input can be inaccurate, for example in the highly dynamical ocean regions such as freshwater river plumes (Amazon Congo, Gulf of Bengal, Mississippi), which can result in increased wind speed uncertainty in these areas. For extreme winds, algorithms for SMOS and SMAP have been trained and/or tested using aircraft-based wind speed data from SFMR. Despite the capabilities of this methodology, it is noteworthy that there is still a scarcity of reliable in-situ wind measurements in major hurricanes with winds exceeding 100 kt/50 ms-1, which makes it challenging to train/validate the L-band models or emissivity Geophysical Model Functions (GMFs). 

There are many examples how SMAP and SMOS wind speeds are helpful for both intensity and wind radii estimates ({cite:p}`Reul2016`;{cite:p}`Reul2017`; {cite:p}`Fore2016`;{cite:p}`Meissner2017`) and real-time data are helping TC forecasts and adding quality information to historical records. Similarly to C- and X-band sensors, the low spatial resolution (~40-50 kms) of currently orbiting L-band radiometers puts a limitation on how close to the coast accurate ocean wind speed measurements can be performed and on the resolution of high wind speed gradients in the inner core of Tropical Cyclones. For the SMOS case, root mean square differences with other co-located wind speeds from other sensors (SMAP, WindSat, AMSR-2, SSMI/F16, F17 and F18) increases from ~2.5 m/s for open ocean scenes to ~5 m/s when the distance to coast is less than ~250 km. However, combined data from SMOS and SMAP do provide new, independent and very regular estimates of the gale force (R34), damaging (R50), and destructive (R64) wind radii for each given storm, as well as estimates of intensity provided at ~40-50 km resolution ({cite:p}`Reul2017`; {cite:p}`Fore2016`;{cite:p}`Meissner2017`). In the last couple of years, the Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) has been using SMAP and SMOS data to aid with their analysis of surface winds and intensity and this information is being saved on the Automated Tropical Cyclone Forecasting Systems (ATCF) ({cite:p}`Sampson2000`) for best track preparation.

## Justification of selected algorithm  

Key components of the RTM model are 0th, 1st and the 2nd harmonic terms $\Delta e_{p,f}^{(i=0,1,2)}$ which are induced by sea surface isotropic and anisotropic features as a function of wind speed.

In the present *first version of the algorithm*, we rely on well established empirical Geophysical Model Functions (*GMF*) for the harmonics coefficients $\Delta e_p^{(i)}$ at each of the 5 CIMR frequencies and associated polarization and incidence angles. The algorithm is valid only for non-rainy conditions and wind speed less than ~20 m/s. An all weather algorithm will be provided in the version 2 of the ATBD. 

For the C- to X-band, we rely on the four-year sequence over 2003–2006 of the WindSat and Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP)-F13 SSM/I antenna temperatures, which was developed and analyzed by Meissner and Wentz and published in {cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity`. In these data, necessary corrections to the raw antenna temperatures were made in order to calculate meaningful brightness temperature harmonic coefficients, as defined in [Equation](eqbaseline2). The observed WindSat and SSM/I brightness temperatures were calibrated to the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR) radiative transfer model ({cite:p}`wentz2000amsr`). Across-scan biases along with biases resulting from errors in the warm calibration reference were identified and corrected. The polarization rotation angle between the Earth and spacecraft polarization basis due to small errors in spacecraft attitude was corrected ({cite:p}`Meissner2006`, {cite:p}`Purdy2006`).

Faraday rotation angles were computed, and the third Stokes parameter data at 10.7 GHz were corrected accordingly ({cite:p}`Meissner2006`). The brightness temperatures at the other WindSat frequencies were averaged, resampled to the 10.7-GHz footprint, and then averaged into 0.25° longitude–latitude grids. A mask for both land and sea ice was applied, and the data were filtered for rain by discarding those observations with horizontally polarized brightness temperatures at 37 GHz greater than 200 K, or those exhibiting sun glitter, or radio frequency interference ({cite:p}`Meissner2006`).

Atmospheric upwelling and downwelling emission contributions were also calculated and used to estimate effective ocean surface emissivity vectors. Effective surface emissivity vector data at 6.8, 10.7, 18.7, 37.0, and 85.5 GHz were thus obtained from {cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity` for the four components of the modified Stokes vector. The modified Stokes vector, as defined in [Equation](eqbaseline2), is comprised of Fresnel specular surface emissivities $e_{sp}^{(0)}$, isotropic wind-speed induced emissivity variations $\Delta e_{p,f}^{(0)}$, and anisotropic wind direction induced perturbations ($\Delta e_{p,f}^{(1)}$, $\Delta e_{p,f}^{(2)}$). These data include coincident ocean surface wind speed data obtained from WindSat and QuikSCAT, and the wind direction data obtained from QuickSCAT and the Global Data Assimilation System (GDAS, {cite:p}`DescriptionoftheNMCGlobalDataAssimilationandForecastSystem`).

The specular emissivity vector was subsequently calculated with the ocean permittivity taken from {cite:p}`meissner2004complex` and {cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity`. By averaging the satellite-estimated emissivity $E_{p,f}^{surf}$ over all wind directions in order to randomize the azimuthal perturbations in [Equation](eqbaseline2), zeroth-harmonic coefficients (i.e., $e_{sh,f}^{(0)}+\Delta e_{h,f}^{(0)}$, and, $e_{sv,f}^{(0)}+\Delta e_{v,f}^{(0)}$) were estimated. Subsequently, once the first terms on the right-hand side of [Equation](eqbaseline2) for $E_{v,f}^{surf}$ and $E_{h,f}^{surf}$ were known, the first- and second-azimuthal-harmonic coefficients were generated using Fourier analysis. In this ATBD, zeroth-,first-, and second-azimuthal-harmonic coefficients of the ocean surface emissivity are calculated using fit equations provided by {cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity`. The azimuthal-harmonic data set underlying these fit equations can be obtained from the remote sensing systems (RSS) radiative transfer model, which can be downloaded at the following [dowload page](https://www.remss.com/rtm/) with a user registration. We nevertheless recall them in severable tables hereafter for completeness. The harmonic coefficients are parametrized in wind speed as bin-centric (versus boundary-centric), that is, discretized within wind bins of 1 m/s from 0 to 25 m/s and at 55° incidence angle. It is noted that the database of coefficients in {cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity` extends up to 25 m/s. However, the data above 15 m/s were noted to be less reliable (see discussion in {cite:p}`LeeGasiewski2022`) and an all-weather algorithm for $U_{10}\ge$ 15 m/s will be provided in the next version of this ATBD. As well, it is noted that the azimuthal-harmonic coefficients derived from the WindSat and SSM/I brightness temperatures possibly contain some uncompensated contributions due to the reflected-lobe broadening and angular biasing effects of small-scale roughness. These contributions are the result of the Meisner and Wentz model ({cite:p}`meissner2012emissivity`) being constructed using a purely geometrical optics model to account for the reflected downwelling radiances in calculating the azimuthal harmonic coefficients of ocean surface emissivity. This procedure excluded the downwelling radiance reflection effects of small-scale roughness. Differences in surface emission between the future CIMR data and Meissner and Wentz's model, thus, possibly will cause small biases in the zeroth-, first-, and second-azimuthal-harmonic coefficients due to this neglect. 


For the L-band CIMR's horn with nominal EIA$\simeq 52$°, we rely on the GMF derived from the satellite observations of Aquarius mission ({cite:p}`meissner2014emission` and {cite:p}`meissner2018salinity`). The joint U.S./Argentinian Aquarius/SAC-D mission started from June 10, 2011 with data available starting at the end of August 2011, and has ended by June 7, 2015 ({cite:p}`LeVine2018`). During the period of service, Aquarius radiometer (working at 1.413 GHz) continuously measured the first three Stokes parameters of microwave radiation from the ocean surface. Three antenna beams operating at incidence angles of about 29$^{\circ}$, 38$^{\circ}$ and 46$^{\circ}$, respectively, were used for data acquisition ({cite:p}`yueh2014aquarius`). The GMF derived in {cite:p}`meissner2014emission` and {cite:p}`meissner2018salinity` are based on radiometer brightness temperature and scatterometer backscatter observations both taken on board Aquarius. The data were temporally and spatially collocated with wind speeds from WindSat and F17 SSMIS (Special Sensor Microwave Imager Sounder) and wind directions from NCEP (National Center for Environmental Prediction) GDAS (Global Data Assimilation System).