# Roadmap for future ATBD development

The prototype CIMR Level-2 OWV retrieval algorithm presented in this ATBD is based on several assumptions and simplifications. Several developments and improvements to the prototype algorithm are planned which have the potential to significantly improve the performance of the CIMR Level-2 OWV algorithm. We highlight a few of them in this chapter.
## Improvements in the Forward Radiative Transfer model
### New Sea water dielectric constant model at L-band
At the time this ATBD was developed, two up-to-date parametrizations for the sea water dielectric constant at L-band were available, based on one hand, on the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) satellite multi-angular brightness temperature measurements by Boutin et al. (2021) (BV), and, on the other hand, on the new George Washington University laboratory measurements by Zhou et al. (2021) (GW2020). These two approaches are fully independent. For most SSS and Sea Surface Temperature (SST) conditions commonly observed over the open ocean, the relative variations of brightness temperatures Tb simulated through the BV and GW2020 parametrizations agree particularly well, and better than with earlier parametrizations previously used in the SMOS, SMAP, and Aquarius SSS retrievals. Being based purely on Laboratory data, we therefore advise the use of GW2020 in the present ATBD. However, uncertainty remains, especially below 10°C where a ∼0.1 K relative difference between the two models is observed. This motivated the development of a revised parameterization, BVZ (Boutin, Vergely, and Zhou (2023)), based on a methodology similar to that used to derive BV but using GW2020 instead of SMOS measurements. Compared to the GW2020 parameterization, BVZ is derived with a reduced number of degrees of freedom, it relies on the TEOS10 PSS78 conductivity-salinity relationship, and on the previously derived static permittivity of fresh water. Noting that this new parametrization significantly improved the SSS retrieval from SMOS in the 5°C–15°C SST range, we advise to update the GW2020 L-band sea water dielectric constant model with this new BVZ model in future algorithm developments for CIMR.

### Roughness emission azimuthal harmonics in High winds
It remains unclear how the roughness anisotropic emission components (first and second harmonics, see Figure 9 and Figure 10) for all four Stokes parameters behave in high wind speed regimes (say > 20 m/s). Wind-direction signals in passive microwave polarimetry for ocean surfaces under hurricane force winds were however presented in Yueh et al., 2008. They performed analysis of Windsat data for several Atlantic hurricanes from 2003 to 2005. The polarimetric third Stokes parameter observations from the Windsat 10-,18-, and 37-GHz channels were collocated with the ocean-surface winds from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Hwind analysis. The collocated data were binned as a function of wind speed and wind direction. The 10-GHz data show clear 4-K peak-to-peak directional signals at 50-60-m/s wind speed after correction for atmospheric attenuation. The signals in the 18- and 37-GHz channels were unclear at above 40-m/s wind speeds, probably caused by the impact of clouds and rain. The data were expanded by sinusoidal series of the relative azimuth angles between the Hwind analysis and observation directions. The coefficients of the sinusoidal series suggest decreasing response to wind direction for increasing wind speed, but the 10-GHz data appear to be fairly constant for up to 50-m/s wind speeds. The trend of the high-wind data (> 25 m/s) is, in general, consistent with the characteristics of the lighter wind data. The combined Windsat–GDAS (< 25 m/s) and Windsat–Hwind (> 25 m/s) analyses show that the amplitude of first-harmonic coefficients (U1) increases with increasing wind speed from low to 20 m/s but then saturates and decreases at higher wind speeds. The amplitude of second harmonic coefficients (U2), having a similar feature, increases with wind speed from light to moderately high wind speed (< 15 m/s) and then displays a decreasing trend beyond about 15–20-m/s wind speeds. This feature is consistent with the active microwave observations of hurricanes. This implies that the ocean waves and other roughness features generated by hurricane force winds will start to lose directionality for increasing wind speed beyond 30–50 m/s. The loss of directionality can be due to a wider azimuthal spreading of wave propagation, increasing coverage of sea foam and spray, and the impact of raindrops on the surface roughness. Excessive attenuation by rain, if undercorrected, may further reduce the directional dependence of U. The ocean waves with longer wavelengths having greater influence on the 10, 6 and 1.4-GHz microwaves probably can sustain better directionality at very high winds than the ocean waves with shorter wavelength, which have greater impact on the 18.7- and 36.5-GHz frequencies. Therefore, in future ATBD developments for CIMR, we suggest to decrease the directional harmonics (1 and 2) towards zero for wind speed higher than 20 m/s.

### Simplified Atmospheric Corrections

Our proposed atmospheric corrections rely on the vertical integration of the indexes of refraction from local atmospheric parameter profiles. This may be unpractical for an operational processing in terms of computing time. In this case, we suggest to follow the approach used in AMSR-E ATBD (Wentz and Meissner, 2000), where approximated vertically integrated absorption coefficients can be derived from vertically integrated water vapor, cloud liquid water, and air temperature.


## Needed and Missing Corrections

### Retrieval in Coastal Areas and Closer to the Sea Ice Edge

The improved resolution of CIMR and stringent beam forming ("distance-to-coast") requirements mean that Level-2 OWV retrievals can be achieved closer to the coastline. Still, coastal regions and water bodies will be challenging for the CIMR Level-2 products when the main beam overlaps different surface types. This can lead to erroneous coastal OWVs. 

Similar challenges exist for retrieval of OWV close to the sea-ice edge. Application of a land-spill over correction and methods for mitigating land contamination (Olmedo et al., 2017; Olmedo et al., 2018) should be investigated, as well as methods to reduce sea-ice contamination (Meissner and Manaster, 2021). It is not fully clear yet at which processing level (1 or 2) the land- and ice-ocean transitions effects shall be corrected for on the $T_B$s (so-called land-sea contamination). Given that these effects require antenna-pattern-related information, it shall better be applied in the Level 1 algorithms.

---

### All Weather OWV Retrieval Algorithm

It is difficult to measure radiometer wind speeds in rainy conditions which are often encountered simultaneously with high wind conditions. Rain increases the atmospheric attenuation, especially at frequencies higher than L-band, such as C- to Ka-band channels of CIMR. The brightness temperature signal and therefore the signal-to-noise ratio decreases with the square of the atmospheric transmittance $\tau$. 

Therefore, under rain, the radiometer measurement is less sensitive to the surface wind speed. This is particularly true for the Ku- and Ka-band channels of CIMR, which will be strongly affected by rain. By assuming that the vertical atmospheric temperature profile $T_{eff}(h)$ is isothermal and therefore independent of $h$ and that it is also equal to the surface temperature $T_s$, and that there are no surface scattering of sky radiation, Meissner and Wentz (2009) have nevertheless shown that the Top of the Atmosphere brightness can be related to the surface reflectivity $R_p$ using:

$$
T_{BV} = (1 - R_V \tau^2) T_{eff}
$$

$$
T_{BH} = (1 - R_H \tau^2) T_{eff}
$$

where $\tau$ is the atmospheric transmittance.

If there is scattering rain in the atmosphere due to rain, the expressions above remain still valid but the effective temperature $T_{eff}$ is smaller than the atmospheric temperature. It is very difficult to accurately model brightness temperatures in rain. Because of the high variability of rainy atmospheres, the brightness temperatures depend on cloud type and the distribution of rain within the footprint (beam filling). In addition, with increasing frequency and increasing drop size, atmospheric scattering starts to become important.

That means that it is not possible to use the simple Rayleigh approximation for cloud water absorption but one rather needs to apply the full Mie absorption theory. This requires additional input such as size and form of the raindrops. However, those parameters are not readily available. Nevertheless, using Liebe et al., 1995 atmospheric microwave propagation model one can obtain a "rough" estimate of the values of $\tau$ for the three L-, C-, and X-band frequencies as a function of rain rate as illustrated in {numref}`Figure55`.


```{figure} Figure55.png
--- 
name: Figure55
---
(Left) Rain attenuation coefficient (Nepers/m) and (right) brightness temperature reduction (K) through rain at 4 km altitude as a function of rain rate (mm/h) and electromagnetic frequency: L-band (black), C-band (red), and X-band (magenta).
```

According to this model, L-band Tbs are very little attenuated by rain compared to C- and X-bands. C-band attenuation coefficient is found about $1/3^{rd}$ of the X-band at most rain rate. At C-band and X-frequency bands, atmospheric absorption, emission, and scattering associated with high cloud liquid and ice water content and intense precipitations have large impacts on the brightness temperatures.


The algorithm we proposed is valid for moderate wind speed conditions (< 20 m/s) and low rain rates (< 1-2 mm/h). In order to retrieve wind speeds in rain at higher resolution than L-band, we need to be able to find appropriate combinations of CIMR C and X-band channels that reduce the sensitivity to rain without reducing the sensitivity to wind too much. As discussed in Meissner and Wentz (2009), it is interesting to consider the channel combinations $T6H − λ \cdot T10H$ between H-polarized data at C-band and H-pol at X-band. 

As found, the $\lambda$ parameter shall be chosen to minimize the sensitivity to rain. As found in Meissner and Wentz (2009) and also in the Hwang (2019)’s GMF, the H-pol reflectivities are approximately the same for both C and X-band: $R_{6H} \sim R_{10H} \equiv R_H$. Therefore, we find:

$$
Q = T_{BH}^{6.8 \, GHz} - \lambda \cdot T_{BH}^{10.7 \, GHz} = -T_{eff} R_H (\tau_{6.8 \, GHz}^2 - \lambda \cdot \tau_{10.7 \, GHz}^2)
$$

and $\lambda$ is then chosen to minimize the sensitivity of $Q$ to rain rate:

$$
\frac{\partial Q}{\partial R} (\tau_{6.8 \, GHz}^2 - \lambda \cdot \tau_{10.7 \, GHz}^2) = 0
$$

or:

$$
\lambda = \frac{\partial \tau_{6.8 \, GHz}^2 / \partial R}{\partial \tau_{10.7 \, GHz}^2 / \partial R}
$$

According to matchup-atmospheric databases established globally and under hurricanes for WindSat and also, as found from the Liebe et al. (1992)’s model, the dependence of $\tau^2$ on rain rate $R$ for global atmospheric set, give an estimate $\lambda \simeq 1/3$. So, when using the quantity:

$$
Q = T_{BH}^{6.8 \, GHz} - 0.3 \cdot T_{BH}^{10.7 \, GHz}
$$

the rain effect shall be best minimized at both C and X bands. The change of $Q$ as a function of surface wind speed can be then derived from the linearly extrapolated isotropic GMFs above 20 m/s. As found, $Q$ remains sensitive to wind speed although it is certainly less sensitive to wind speed than $T_{BH}^{6.8 GHz}$, or $T_{BH}^{6.8 GHz}$, separately.


```{figure} Figure56.png
--- 
name: Figure56
---
Sensitivity of the surface brightness temperature to wind speed for the L-band H polarization $T_{BH}^{1.4 GHz}$, compared to $Q = T_{BH}^{6.8 GHz} - 0.3 \cdot T_{BH}^{10.7 GHz}$.
```

Interestingly, we find that:

$$
Q(U_{10}) = T_{BH}^{6.8 \, GHz} - 0.3 \cdot T_{BH}^{10.7 \, GHz} \approx T_{BH}^{1.4 \, GHz}(U_{10})
$$

Basically, by combining the H-pol channel of the X- and C-bands, one can reproduce a quasi-synthetic “L-band” sensor from the viewpoint of sea surface roughness dependencies (minimized rain effects and similar sensitivity to surface wind) but at a significantly higher spatial resolution of ~15 km instead of ~60 km for the L-band.

To retrieve the wind speed in stormy weather, one can therefore minimize a likelihood function which will include the quantity $Q$ for wind speed and the 3rd Stokes parameter at X-band for wind direction. An important additional constraint will be put on the C-, X-band wind vector retrievals during the iterative inversion: after spatial averaging of the retrieved Moderate spatial resolution (~15 km wind vector at the spatial resolution of the L-band (~50 km)), the $Q$-retrieved wind field shall match the L-band-only retrieved low-resolution wind. We suggest to implement in the future the $Q$-retrieval approach for winds above 20 m/s and rain rate > 2 mm/h.

---

## Input CIMR Data Combination and Retrieval Configuration

In the OWV retrieval simulations that were performed over the large tropical test card:

1. We both retrieved ocean wind speed and SST together from all input linear polarization channels.
2. Wind direction is retrieved using only C- and X-band channels 3rd and 4th Stokes parameters.

It is expected that the number and type of frequency channels used as input for wind speed retrieval shall be kept configurable in the operational processor. SST can be provided as a first guess in the retrieval algorithm from the official L2 product retrievals. For the wind direction, we focused only on using the C- and X-band channels 3rd and 4th Stokes parameters as inputs because at higher frequency, atmospheric effects might corrupt the quality of the wind direction retrievals. In clear sky conditions, the Ku and Ka-band data might nevertheless be used as inputs given their higher sensitivity to wind direction. The L-band channel can also be used but the sensitivity to wind direction of the 3rd and $4^{th}$ Stokes parameters is much reduced and the data might be more affected by Faraday rotation than at the higher frequencies.
